# morpho-manual
Manual for the Morpho language

This is a translation of the Morpho manual from the original TeX to an mdBook format. 

To build the book, you need to have [`mdbook`](https://github.com/rust-lang/mdBook) installed. You can install it with `cargo`:

```bash
cargo install mdbook
```

Then, you need to generate the figures and the reference section by running the `build.py` script:
```bash
python build.py
```

Finally, you can build the book by running `mdbook`:
```bash
mdbook build
```

This will generate the HTML files in the `book` directory. You can view the book by opening the `index.html` file in your browser.

To preview the book, you can run the following command:
```bash
mdbook serve --open
```

# Notes

This mdBook was generated by converting the original TeX manual to markdown using Pandoc, followed by a small `re` script to replace `$...$` with `\\(...\\)`. 

The pandoc command used was:
```bash
pandoc -s -f latex -t markdown --mathjax manual.tex -o morpho-manual.md
```

and the Python script for the substitution is provided in this repository [here](src/replacedollars.py).


# Contributing

Contributions are absolutely welcome! If you find any errors or have any suggestions, please open an issue or a pull request.

Some of the things/issues that need to be worked on:

1. Adding syntax highlighting to the code snippets that are missing it.
2. Cross referencing figures and equations better
3. Something funky with the formatting for `\hat{s}` (see [here](src/examples/electrostatics.md#bulk-variations)) or `\vec{s}` (see [here](src/examples/qtensor.md#optimization-problem)).
4. `\mathbf{x}` works, but `mathbf{x}_i` doesn't. Some of the examples, etc had boldfaced variables that are not boldfaced for now for this reason. (I am digging into it through [here](https://github.com/mathjax/MathJax/issues/329))
